- [Instructor] Before we get into the demos
for the Managed Executer Service
or Managed Scheduled Executer Service
and lead us to the concurrency APIs,
let us take a quick look at some
of the Java Enterprise concepts
that we need to be aware of before we go further.
Now, of course if you need more information
about these concepts you can take a course
on LinkedIn Learning about it,
but as a part of this course, let's quickly revise them.
The first one is JNDI.
Java Naming and Directory Interface is an API in Java
to access data tree services.
So, what does this do?
It'll help you to look up data and resources
by means of a name and that name is a JNDI name.
Now, like all the other Java APIs,
this one is also independent
of the underlying implementation.
When you talk about the resources and data look-up,
these can come from either a FLAC file or a database,
or maybe even the application server.
Now, the Java Remote Method Invocation
and the JAVA Enterprise Edition APIs use JNDI extensively
to look up objects over a network.
Very common directory services like LDAP,
gold-bar, DNS, et cetera can be accessed through JNDI.
Now when you want to do JNDI look-up
in your RESTful beans or maybe in your EJB classes,
then there is an API available for it
which is initial context which comes from
the Java start naming package.
We will look at how this is done in our demos,
but this is just to give you an idea
that when you do JNDI look-up you will need
that initial context API.
The next term is Stateless session bean.
This is a type of an Enterprise Java bean
which is used to perform independent operations.
As the name suggests, it is stateless
which means it does not conserve any state of the client.
However, yes, it can of course, have its
own state present with it.
Now this is the session bean which you
can add a lot of business methods
which do database interactions with you
or any other kind of business logic for you.
The application server often creates
a pool of such stateless session beans
so that it can do the request processing operations
on those business methods.
The next term is Global transactions.
When you have a distributed environment,
you may have multiple resource managers
on which you are trying to do transactions.
So those multiple resources could be databases
or GMS queues or application servers, et cetera.
And whenever you do this distributed transaction processing,
it is absolutely important that
the data integrity is ensured.
Now XA or extended architecture,
is an open standard which is defined
for executing a global transaction that accesses
more than one backend data tool.
This is the one which will help you
define the interactions between the transaction manager
and the resource manager.
The goal of XA is to allow multiple resources
like C-de-W-eses, GMS queues, transactional caches, etc.,
to be accessed within the same transaction
thereby preserving the asset properties across applications.
The database that we are using is mysql for this course
and mysql driver does have the X series source
available so you do not have to worry about it.
It is present right there in your driver Java file.
And the last one is Java transaction API.
Now this is a very famous API and it is
basically a list of interfaces
between a transaction manager and
the parties involved in the transaction.
This transaction API has specifications to perform
transactions over a distributed network.
The parties involved in transaction processing
will be the resource manager, the application server,
and of course, the application code.
So JPA is going to specify the interface
between the transaction manager and all of these parties
and gives you a way to do transaction processing.
Going further, we are going to use these concepts
to implement the demos,
which is why this revision was necessary.